Feature Flags (#5942)
braze-inc/braze-docs: _docs/_developer_guide/platform_wide/feature_flags/about.md

![Moving image of rollout traffic slider going from 0% to 100%.][1]

For example, let's say we've decided to add a new "Live Chat Support" link to our app for faster customer service. We could release this feature to all customers at once. However, a wide release carries risks, such as: 

> * Our Support team is still in training, and customers will be able to start support tickets after it's released. This doesn't give us any wiggle room in case the Support team needs more time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Our Support team is still in training, and customers can start support tickets after it's released. This doesn't give us any leeway in case the Support team needs more time.
```

* We're unsure of the actual volume of new support cases we'll get, so we might not be staffed appropriately.
* If our Support team is overwhelmed, we have no strategy to quickly to turn this feature off again.

> * There might be bugs introduced in the chat widget and we don't want customers to have a negative experience.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* There might be bugs introduced in the chat widget, and we don't want customers to have a negative experience.
```

> With Braze feature flags, we can instead gradually roll out the feature and mitigate all of these risk:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With Braze feature flags, we can instead gradually roll out the feature and mitigate all of these risks:
```

* We will turn on the "Live Chat Support" feature when the Support team says they're ready.
* We will enable this new feature for only 10% of users to determine if we're staffed appropriately.
* If there are any bugs, we can quickly disable the feature instead of rushing to ship a new release.

To gradually roll out this feature, we create a new feature flag called `enable_live_chat` in the Braze dashboard.

> ![Feature flag called "enable_live_chat"][7]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Feature flag details for an example named Live Chat Widget. The ID is enable_live_chat. This feature flag description reads that the live chat widget will show on the support page.][7]
```

In our app code, we will only show the **Start Live Chat** button when the Braze feature flag is enabled:

```javascript
import {useState} from "react";
import * as braze from "@braze/web-sdk";

// Get the initial value from the Braze SDK
const featureFlag = braze.getFeatureFlag("enable_live_chat");
const [liveChatEnabled, setLiveChatEnabled] = useState(featureFlag.enabled);

// Listen for updates from the Braze SDK
braze.subscribeToFeatureFlagsUpdates(() => {
    const newValue = braze.getFeatureFlag("enable_live_chat").enabled;
    setLiveChatEnabled(newValue);
});

// Only show the Live Chat if the Braze SDK determines it is enabled
return (<>
  Need help? <button>Email Our Team</button>
  {liveChatEnabled && <button>Start Live Chat</button>}
</>)

```

### Remotely control app variables 
Use feature flags to modify your app's functionality in production. This can be particularly important for mobile apps, where app store approvals prevent rolling out changes quickly to all users.

> For example, let's say that our marketing team wants to list our current sales and promotions in our app's navigation. Normally, our engineers require one week lead time for any changes and three days for an app store review. But with Thanksgiving, Black Friday, Cyber Monday, Hanukah, Christmas, and New Years all within a two month period, we won't be able to make these tight deadlines .

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, let's say that our marketing team wants to list our current sales and promotions in our app's navigation. Normally, our engineers require one week's lead time for any changes and three days for an app store review. But with Thanksgiving, Black Friday, Cyber Monday, Hanukah, Christmas, and New Year all within two months, we won't be able to meet these tight deadlines.
```

With feature flags, we can let Braze power the content of our app navigation link, letting our marketing manager make changes in minutes rather than days.

To remotely configure this feature, we'll create a new feature flag called `navigation_promo_link` and define the following initial properties:

![Feature flag showing "link" and "text" properties pointing to a generic sales page][9]

> In our app, we'll use Braze's getter methods to retrieve this feature flag's properties and build the navigation links based on those values:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In our app, we'll use getter methods by Braze to retrieve this feature flag's properties and build the navigation links based on those values:
```

```javascript
import * as braze from "@braze/web-sdk";
import {useState} from "react";

const featureFlag = braze.getFeatureFlag("navigation_promo_link");
// Check if the feature flag is enabled
const [promoEnabled, setPromoEnabled] = useState(featureFlag.enabled);
// Read the "link" property
const [promoLink, setPromoLink] = useState(featureFlag.getStringProperty("link"));
// Read the "text" property
const [promoText, setPromoText] = useState(featureFlag.getStringProperty("text"));

return (<>
  <div>
    <a href="/">Home</a>
    { promoEnabled && <a href={promoLink}>{promoText}</a> }
    <a href="/products">Products</a>
    <a href="/categories">Categories
  </div>
</>)
```

> Now, the day before Thanksgiving, all we have to do is change those property values in the Braze dashboard:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, the day before Thanksgiving, all we have to do is change those property values in the Braze dashboard.
```

> ![Feature flag showing "link" and "text" properties pointing to a Thanksgiving sales page][10]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Feature flag with link and text properties directing to a Thanksgiving sales page.][10]
```

> As a result, the next time someone loads the app they will see the new Thanksgiving deals.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a result, the next time someone loads the app, they will see the new Thanksgiving deals.
```

### Message coordination

Use feature flags to synchronize a feature's rollout and messaging. This will allow you to use Braze as the source of truth for both your user experience and its relevant messaging. To achieve this, target the new feature to a particular segment or filtered portion of your audience. Then, create a campaign or Canvas that only targets that segment. 

> Let's say that we're launching a new loyalty rewards program for our users. It can be difficult for Marketing and Product teams to perfectly coordinate the timing of promotional messaging with a feature's rollout. Feature flags in Canvas let you apply sophisticated logic when it comes to enabling a feature for a select audience, and controlling the related messaging to those same users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's say that we're launching a new loyalty rewards program for our users. It can be difficult for Marketing and Product teams to perfectly coordinate the timing of promotional messaging with a feature's rollout. Feature flags in Canvas let you apply sophisticated logic when it comes to enabling a feature for a select audience and controlling the related messaging to those same users.
```

To effectively coordinate feature rollout and messaging, we'll create a new feature flag called `show_loyalty_program`. For our initial phased release, we'll let Canvas control when and for whom the feature flag is enabled. For now, we'll leave the rollout percentage at 0% and not select any target segments.

> ![A feature flag named "show_loyalty_program"][11]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![A feature flag with the name Loyalty Rewards Program. The ID is show_loyalty_program, and the description that this shows the new loyalty rewards program on the home screen and profile page.][11]
```

> Then, in Canvas Flow, we'll create a Canvas Feature Flag step that enables the `show_loyalty_program` feature flag for our "High Value Customers" segment:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then, in Canvas Flow, we'll create a [Feature Flag step]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/engagement_tools/canvas/canvas_components/feature_flags/) that enables the `show_loyalty_program` feature flag for our "High Value Customers" segment:
```

> ![Canvas flow showing an audience split where "high value customers" enable a "show_loyalty_program" feature flag][4]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![An example of a Canvas with an Audience Split step where the high-value customers segment turns on the show_loyalty_program feature flag.][4]
```

> Now, users in this segment will start to see the new loyalty program, and after it's enabled, an email and survey will automatically be sent out to help our team gather feedback.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, users in this segment will start to see the new loyalty program, and after it's enabled, an email and survey will be sent out automatically to help our team gather feedback.
```

### Feature experimentation

Use feature flags to experiment and confirm your hypotheses around your new feature. By splitting traffic into two or more groups, you can compare the impact of a feature flag across groups, and determine the best course of action based on the results.

> An A/B test is a powerful tool that compares users' responses to multiple versions of a variable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An [A/B test]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/engagement_tools/testing/multivariant_testing/) is a powerful tool that compares users' responses to multiple versions of a variable.
```

> In this example, our team has built a new checkout flow for our e-commerce app. Even though we're confident it's an improvement the user experience, we want to run an A/B test to measure its impact on our app's revenue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, our team has built a new checkout flow for our e-commerce app. Even though we're confident it's improving the user experience, we want to run an A/B test to measure its impact on our app's revenue.
```

To begin, we'll create a new feature flag called `enable_checkout_v2`. We won't add an audience or rollout percentage. Instead, we'll use Canvas to split traffic, enable the feature, and measure the outcome.

In our app, we'll check if the feature flag is enabled or not and swap out the checkout flow based on the response:

```javascript
import * as braze from "@braze/web-sdk";

const featureFlag = braze.getFeatureFlag("enable_checkout_v2");
if (featureFlag.enabled) {
  return <NewCheckoutFlow />
} else {
  return <OldCheckoutFlow />
}
```

> In Canvas, we'll use an [Experiment Path][5] step and a Feature Flag step to set up our A/B test.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Canvas, we'll use an [Experiment Path step][5] and a Feature Flag step to set up our A/B test.
```

> Now, 50% of users will see the old experience, while the other 50% see the new experience. We can then analyze the two steps to determine which checkout flow resulted in a higher conversion rate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, 50% of users will see the old experience, while the other 50% will see the new experience. We can then analyze the two steps to determine which checkout flow resulted in a higher conversion rate.
```

> ![Canvas with an experiment path splitting traffic into two 50% groups][6]{: width="70%"}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![A Canvas with an experiment path splitting traffic into two 50 percent groups.][6]{: width="70%"}
```
